---
title: "I am a Zombie and My Brain is Goo"
description: "I am not ACTUALLY a Zombie and My Brain is not ACTUALY Goo. Anyways, Social Media and it's infleunce on society and me."
date:   2025-10-10
tags: ["personal", "research"]
image: "/assets/blog/brainrot.jpg"
pinned: true
---

I was casually scrolling on my Instagram feed when I found out that stated, "Short-form content shown to be 5 times worse for brain than Alcohol" or something similar to that. "Oh No!", I cried out as I remember my days of ~10 hours of screen time. "My brain has got to be destoryed by now", I thought. That article then stuck with me for a couple days. I began trying to spend less time consuming entertainment through short-form content. Then, I randomly decided to look up that same post, and I realized that there were no sources provided in that Instagram post. What's worse is that it was posted by a notoriously misconstruable Instagram account, Pubity. I had been duped. I could not find a single credible source emplifying anything similar to what that post stated. "Oh No", I cried out. This time with a more solemn and colder demeanor. I had just fallen for blatant misinformation.
<br><br>
Funnily enough, this post sent me down a rabbit hole about the nature of short-form content and how we picture addictions and biases. Often, we hear about the negative effects doomscrollng and constant engagement with algorithmically decided content. "The Scroll" as I call it is where the content you experience isn't sought after through any meaningful search or query but a simple mindless scroll to the next piece of entertainment. As simple as turning a page, this algorithm feeds on indecision. "The Scroll" is completely endless by nature. More people upload content faster than users can experience that content. Thus, you have just unlocked infinite entertainment. How fun.
<br><br>
The negatives of this are quite obvious to imagine. What content would an algorithm choose to show and why? Well, the "why" is that the algorithm should prioritize time spent and ads consumed. This is the most profitable method for companies through advertisements and data collection. The "what" is a bit more complex. Often, people will tell you that their algorithm is curated for their specific desires. For instance, you could want "what" your feed is to be cute animals, and you can train the algorithm to prioritize that by liking or engaging with those videos. So, your feed is supposedly in your control. However, that isn't truly the case. Often, the algorithm will let you believe you can control it by giving you these options, but that engagement incentivises users to stick to the platform even futher. My favorite analogy is of the slot machine. Telling the algorithm that you want cat videos is just the same as changing the theme of the slot machine. At the end of the day, the slot machine can just spit out a video of a car crash even if you try your hardest to only have cat videos. That's because the feed is infinite, and attention is finite. If cat videos don't work anymore, then your attention has to be captured another way. Engaging with that post by saying you don't want this keeps you on the platform longer as you gamble for another cat video.
<br><br>
That experience may not be specific to any individual's experience, but its analagous to a general understanding with social media platforms. Another important subject to understand is that "negativity drives clicks." In general, stronger emotional responses incentivize stronger willingness to engage in content. When we examine the behaviors that generate the most clicks, often the easiest and cheapest way to gain feedback is through negativity. If you have been on a social media app or site, I have a strong inclination you have also seen something similar. In one word, it's "cheap". There is no active or thoughtful engagement besides the "ragebait" that compels users to interact. Of course, "The Scroll" is not entirely designed to constantly produce negativity. On the contrary, it can produce lots of content which is positive. Human psyche is just designed in a way where generally people want to engage on things that make them angry, sad, or despair. There's an urge to combat that negativity especially if the content feels targeted at them. 
<br><br>
If you've ever seen the CGP Grey video "7 ways to maximize misery", it might feel like "The Scroll" is out to do just that. News articles about how facebook intentionally shows negative content to people in distress only fuel this feeling. Why do people still consume? Why do I still consume it if it can spew so much negativity? I think there is a couple reasons why me and so many others still choose to engage with it. I boiled it down to social, agentic, and invsible aspects. 
<br><br>
Social media, in particular, prays on the social aspect to support its ecosystem. Missing out on the next meme, current events, friend's posts, and etc. You can't escape it because it has the possibility to produce something incredible. When facebook initially launched, people lauded it as it had the ability to connect past friends, lovers, and family. I've seen stories about how through early social media adoption people found their soulmates. The nature of "The Scroll" and a focus of the "media" didn't come into focus until later. A short-form content app like Tiktok is a content-forward platform compared to other social medias. In order to retain those people to keep using the platform even after the platform had supposedly done its job, it focused on content to be the source of attraction. Now, the "social" aspect feels like only a part of why I consume short-form content now. It's just one thing of many that keeps me coming back. It's like gambling if my entire friends and family were also at the slot machines with me all the time. 
<br><br>
Agency is tricky. Agency is about how much control people have on their consumption of content. People have choices in this matter, right? I mean all my friends can be on Tiktok, but I don't have to. As I stated, the social aspect is just one part of it. The other is distraction. Why do so many people like objectively bad television? TV is longer than movies, so a bad show takes much more of one's life than a bad movie. To my understanding, bad television is like junk food for the brain. It's long, repetitive, and mild. Short-form content is like a potent drug for the brain. It's so cheap, accessible, and stimulating. It's like a cigarette and coffee in the morning except it's even cheaper and accessible than that. Although, there isn't no-scrolling in airplanes to my knowledge. So, how much of our engagement is in our agency? Technically, we can log off, but socially and psychologically, we’re wired to stay.
<br><br>
Technically, "The Scroll" is not real. The entire user experience is based on user created content (posts, comments, reposts, etc.). There is no protest to "The Scroll" other than to, ironically, not scroll. This, again, brings into question the agency of users. Is it possible for users to combat an algorithm designed specifically to keep them hooked for as long as possible? Is there any point of trying to reject "The Scroll"? Is "The Scroll a reflection of humanity in its entirity? I mean the content is all user generated. I don't want to give it up for some nebulous reason that it's bad for me. Well, technically everything can be bad for you, so why do I have to fight with a system to be happy? Why can't I just be happy outside of it? Do I not get enough dopamine per second without it? Is it the distraction, or is it the escape? Why do I watch deep into the night even when I'm really sleepy? It's easier to ignore everything else and scroll. I don't care that it isn't healthy because I enjoy it! I like it! I laugh and learn and experience new things very frequently. Sure, there are lots of negative and bad things, but it's normal. You can't be perfect.
<br><br>
In a particular way, social media might also be a reflection of the sins of humanity incarnate. Really, if we were to train the algorithm to only show content which was purely positive, there would never be an issue with social media. Technology is meant to better the lives of humanity. As we get closer to technology that imitates humans, it shines a reflection on the unsightly aspects of us. Although agreeably hyperbolic, It's like a mirror into the parts of your brain you choose not to think about. So what are we on social media? What do we do there that is of so much interest. Why is the social aspect of social media almost irrelevant? At least for me, when I am on social media, I become a zombie. A motionless zombie with no other thoughts or feelings other than that curated to me. I can't feel no pain in my chest, no tears in my eyes, no joy in my laughs. The enjoyment is that of hypnosis. 
<br><br>
It works as a respite from the troubles of life, but it can so easily become a habit or force of comfort tied to something artificial. My brain is not just goo when on social media. It becomes goo when I wake up and scroll, when I eat lunch and scroll, when I get home and scroll. The line becomes blurry from respite due to a need for rest or a source of genuine comfort for my brain. I think back to the Instagram post that made me quit social media for a bit. It was so blatantly a false statement. However, was it bad for me? I took a break from social media. Was this kind of evocation necessary for me to have a healthier social media usage? The fact that I need to take active effort in order to not succumb to an all-encompassing algorithm is scary enough. At what point is it my fault or the fault of the nameless, faceless AI that grabs me by my dopamine receptors. As much as I dislike misinformation, it might've actually saved me from even further zombification. It's just so easy to get wrapped up in this content style when you're bored or tired that it feels insidious. In the end, social media is here to stay no matter what I say. It's an inevitability of the way technology wraps our world in the palm of its hands. How much we choose to consume is up to us to some extent. With all this, it feels like the human has been disregarded for some time now in favor of monetization and market share. The more we exploit human psychology the more we dive deeper into a hole it might be hard or impossible to come back from. "The Scroll" has turned me into a zombie, and I hate it. 