---
title: "Incompetence and my Experience with Idiocracy"
description: "I am venting"
date:   2025-09-04
tags: ["rant", "personal"]
image: "/assets/blog/charlie_day.jpg"
pinned: false
---

Fair warning that this text might feel very impossible to understand. I just spat words onto a blog withot any expectation for cohesions. So, enjoy as much as you can.
<br>
<br>
<hr>
<br>
<br>
Hello! I am working on a blog/essay on short-form content and it's effect on psyche, human zeitgeist etc and wanted to make this blog post to rant. So, I've been doing work to move out of Arizona to Seattle for graduate school, and a big part of that has been working with people to fix and ship my car. It has also included messages to almost a hundred realtors to find a place. Then, it involves touring, lease agreements, booking flights, and all the stuff that comes with signing a lease. Standard stuff. I mean it isn't difficult by any means. Most people could have this sorted out maybe in 2 weeks or so. Not for me. Oh no. For me, I've been searching for houses for 2 months and only recently was able to find a place in budget to sign. I have fixed my car but haven't shipped it out yet. My flight is in 10 days mind you. I was supposed to find a part-time job to do while doing grad school, but no one has responded back to me even after regular follow ups. Safe to say, I might be a bit incompetent. 
<br><br>
But, that's ok! Many people can be deemed objectively incompetent, but they still can go on to achieve what they desire. It's all in your own hands. Mostly. I have an opinion that might seem nonsensical. I believe stress isn't real. I mean this in terms of myself. I can understand and empathize with others who go through stressful situations. However, I tend to get stressed at the most basic of situations. It's bad. I get stressed picking up the mail (exagerration of course). However, stress is not real. You cannot be stressed for a dumb reason. If you are, then that is a consistently fallable character trait which warrants examination and possibly ridicule. The situation I am in is not by all accounts an easy one. But, it is a very manageable one. Maybe it's the ambiguity of where I need to spend my efforts that gives me the most trouble. Unlike most of my peers, I lack a severe amount of motivation for anything in life. Thus, stress is not real. If I feel any stress, that is a fallable character embeded within me which means I have to be the one to overcome it. It's so stupid it baffles me. Logic is thrown out the window for what seems to be no reason. What I mean to say succintly is that stress has a connotation of being overworked. That is not the case for me. I am just dumb.
<br><br>
Yet, I can somehow delude myself into playing games or watching some entertainment instead of the task at hand. When the task is kind of nebulous, it becomes easy to avoid it. How would you be able to accomplish anything in life if you can't even get started? That is why I am going to the University of Washington. It's like a self-made board school for me. I'm away from home and have to focus on the grind. Can't get distracted. People talk about the ephemeral value of life and the joy in can cause. I agree, but reality is that joy is only the result of action. Like, I listen to a song, and I find joy in it. It's a fleeting joy of course. Those that have the most joy in the world are the ones who have it all figured out, but no one has it all figured out. It's constant that feeling of inadequency.
<br><br>
Part of me also understands why others grow more secluded as you age. There isn't a demonstrable goal that unites people other than their careers and possibly hobbies. It's why I am objectively kind of a bad friend. I don't maintain relationships or try to as I am really only focused on trying to achieve my own adequency. Others are able to achieve that while also keeping relationships which I can admire. Although this isn't the only reason for my bad friendedness, it is definitely something I guess. The inadequency may be why I make this blog on a website nobody will ever check or see without my express showcase of it. I was thinking of posting this on like my LinkedIn, but sadly I don't work at Amazon or go to Cornell Tech. My website is beneath all the other material matters of this world and especially those who have risen the ranks of society. 
<br><br>
I often wonder if it's better to just exist separate from everything. Live on my own, head down, and I get to do as told and I'll be happy. Maybe that is the case. I'm just to idiotic to even get to that spot in the first place. Then, what is my next course of thinking? I often wonder if it would be better to just not exist. You might think it's unhealthy, and I am inclined to agree. Reality is that whatever is healthy or unhealthy doesn't matter. As long as a person can seek some respite from their own machinations, I think that's good enough. I'd rather be secluded than deal with the idiocracy of myself and the world. 